Syrian Electronic Army Hackers Attack Guardian Twitter Accounts

Jacob Bos, 1480063:

STATEMENT OF THE ETHICAL ISSUE OR QUESTION

Does the Syrian Electronic Army have just ethical grounds for their attack?

APPLICABLE ETHICAL STANDARDS

Ethical Frameworks to take into consideration include…
1.	Utilitarian Ethics
2.	Duty Ethics
3.	Virtue Ethics

SPECIFIC APPLICATION OF THE STANDARDS TO THE ISSUE

For each of the ethical standards takin into account I will breakdown the ethics of the Syrian Electronic Army (SEA) per framework.
1.	Utilitarian Ethics
	a.	Under Utilitarian ethics, we need to look at three different aspects of the even. First, the net good 
		accomplished, second, how it affected the most number of people, and last, highlight the winners and losers of this event. 
		The outcome of the Syrian electronic army attack on the guardian twitter accounts ended with the stock exchange falling, 
		panic in our nation, and website down time for the guardian. The net good accomplish helped SEA (Syria’s population being 
		approximately 18,413,655 – [2]) and negatively impacted our country and our allies (approximately 935,177,144 in 
		population – [2]). Overall there is a much larger percentage negatively impacted rather than positively. SEA definitely 
		won in their desire to hurt our country and allies, and because the net number of people were negatively impacted this 
		interaction is unethical from a utilitarian perspective.
2.	Duty Ethics
	a.	Under Duty ethics (aka Deontological ethics) we look at the morality of the action as right or wrong with rules instead 
		of consequences. As the two opposing entities are under different structured frameworks we look to the highest framework we have which 
		comes from the United Nations, a worldwide organization that has established international law. The NATO CCDCOE or Cooperative Cyber 
		Defense Centre of Excellence has an online library of documentation pertaining to cyber security. I found a document on “Cyber Weapon 
		Reviews under International Law: A Critical Analysis” – [1] which provided insight into the rules pertaining to worldwide cyber security. 
		There is mention that Nato considers cybersecurity to be an additional field of warfare in which it must operate, just as air, sea, 
		and land are. The use of phishing emails to hack into another system without the owner knowing of it is a violation in this field of 
		warfare. Thus I find that SEA violated duty ethics by making an attack against the owner of a software infrastructure without 
		permission to do so.
3.	Virtue Ethics
	a.	Under Virtue ethics we base the morality under the heart and character of the agent themselves, which in this case is the 
		entity SEA. Using the framework that the agent’s virtue should seek to replicate virtuous character we will make a case for morality. The 
		decision to proceed in the cyber assault on the guardian, the United States, and her allies has to be compared to the idea if a virtuous 
		person would have done the same. A virtous person in the Syrian culture would be. I saw a statistic from google that the country has a 
		population of 80% muslim so they would see the prophet Muhammed as virtuous. Islam literally is interpreted as peace, just with that alone 
		you would conclude that the virtue is being compromised.

ETHICAL CONCLUSION REACHED

Upon finishing the ethical breakdown of the Syrian Electronic Army I have found that they have no ethical grounds for attacking Guardian twitter accounts.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
[1] Wallace, David. “Cyber Weapon Reviews under International Humanitarian Law: A Critical Analysis.” Ccdcoe.org, 2018, ccdcoe.org/uploads/2018/10/TP-11_2018.pdf.
[2] Total Population by Country 2019. (2018-11-21). Retrieved 2019-02-01, from http://worldpopulationreview.com/countries/
